# Stroke Rehabilitation Board
The Balance Board is a system aimed at solving a problem many face, balance impairment, through conditions like strokes and ABI (Acquired Brain Injury), balance impairment has meant that for some, quality of life has dramatically fallen. With the help of the Balance Board, medical professionals are able to tailor rehabilitation regimes to each individual patient for a faster recovery time.
Daniel Ferguson, 2016


Please refer to the Folio PDF for the whole project overview, required items, tests (& results) and all other information.

## Overview
### The Problem
Recovering stoke victims are faced with many challenges on their road to recovery. A possible effect of a stoke is the loss of their balance. This comes with it a whole new group of challenges for every day living. Physiotherapy is the only effective methods to regain this skill, and be able to live an independent life again. The problem is, medical professionals are restricted by the tools they have access too. For situations like this, the only tools that are being used, apart from visual testing, are the Wii Fit and specialised equipment that “are expensive and require a dedicated area in the clinical facilities due to their size, weight and set-up.” (Gil-Gómez, Lloréns, Alcañiz, & Colomer, Effectiveness of a Wii balance board-based system (eBaViR) for balance rehabilitation, 2011) As amazing as these technologies are, they are not built with this application in mind, and can be rather inaccurate and/or expensive. The problem here is that physiotherapists don’t have access to the right tools to be able to assess and monitor patients correctly. A study also highlights the use for a need for a system such as this for ABI (Acquired Brain Injury) victims, being “the main cause of death and disability amount young adults.” (GilGómez, Lloréns, Alcañiz, & Colomer, Effectiveness of a Wii balance board-based system (eBaViR) for balance rehabilitation, 2011) It states the “traditional balance training is based on the automatic repetition of specific movements… [which] provide a limited benefit to patients with balance disorders”. (Gil-Gómez, Lloréns, Alcañiz, & Colomer, Effectiveness of a Wii balance board-based system (eBaViR) for balance rehabilitation, 2011) It also highlighted the usefulness of such a systems for “all levels of impairment” and allows “treatment to be carried out in a secure way”, having no bias of more successful treatment between “demographic (age and gender) or clinical (chronicity… and laterality).” (Gil-Gómez, Lloréns, Alcañiz, & Colomer, Effectiveness of a Wii balance board-based system (eBaViR) for balance rehabilitation, 2011) The journal “highlights it’s potential to be used in clinical settings in order to improve balance”, showing “a significant improvement in static balance… compared to patients who underwent traditional therapy”. (Gil-Gómez, Lloréns, Alcañiz, & Colomer, Effectiveness of a Wii balance board-based system (eBaViR) for balance rehabilitation, 2011)

### What is the product?
The product is a Balance Rehabilitation system, designed for stoke victims and others who suffer from balance problems (such as ABI victims). The system will measure the different levels of pressure the user applies on each foot, giving medical professionals the ability to see how balanced patients are through visualisations of such data.

### Why is it needed?
The Balance Rehabilitation system is designed for rehabilitation of those whom from balance impairment and have coordination problems, such as a stroke and Acquired Brain Injury. For victims, having these complications mean that it is unsafe to walk alone, as tripping or falling over could result in injury. Because of this, stroke victims usually require a caretaker, which takes away their sense of independence, and can also cost them, or their family, a lot of money with care taker fees, longer rehabilitation processes and more frequent medical fees. Because the Balance Rehabilitation system is directly aimed and developed for stroke victims and their rehabilitation, medical professional will be able to gain accurate and relevant information that will allow for the better understand how clients are improving, enable the develop of more effective rehabilitation plans for clients, reducing the time of rehabilitation.
